while the Palestinian foreign minister
Riad al- Malaki is visiting the Haag to
push for a war crimes investigation
against Israel he says he's received
assurances that Israel will be
investigated for its actions in Gaza
Maliki says the attacks serve only one
purpose this time the war that Israel is
waging is
different this time the war is a war of
Revenge that war this war
has no real
objective rather than the total
Destruction of every livable Corner
Place in Gaza well let's speak to Neve
bker he's across this for us in the ha
in the Netherlands NE we just heard a
little of what Malaki said there what
else did he
cover well there's been an awful lot of
busy diplomatic activity by the
Palestinian foreign minister he's been
in jeda in Saudi Arabia he's been of
course earlier this week at the UN
Security Council and now to the
Palestinian Mission here in the hag the
home of international Justice the
international criminal court the
international court of justice also
known as the world Court uh well as you
mentioned the foreign minister did
suggest that after an hour or so long
meeting with Kareem Khan who's the chief
ICC prosecutor that the court has agreed
to investigate allegations of war crimes
crimes against humanity genocide and the
forc deportation of people there is a
caveat though it could take many many
years for any kind of ruling to be made
the
ICC um it also doesn't have a police
force so it can't force uh member
countries that are signatories to uh the
ICC to hand over wanted um individuals
also Israel uh is not a party to the
Rome statute does not recognize the
authority of the ICC so why is it doing
this well it's all about legal
accountability it's all about reminding
the International Community of The Wider
context of the conflict that's going on
at the current time NE I see the
Palestinians are also pursuing a
judgment from the international court of
justice as
well that's right again this is all
about International accountability this
uh is a result of a vote at the UN
General Assembly late last year that
gave the international court of justice
the the power to give its legal opinion
over Israel's occupation of Palestinian
land uh where in the process now of uh
seeing written submissions oral
submissions from uh those sides that are
party to this case will take place uh in
February before a judgment later on in
the year again it's all about shining
the international Spotlight and what
Palestine says is a long and
accelerating process of settlement
building and it's continued occupation
NE Barker there with that report for us
from the ha in the Netherlands thank you
so much
Neeve well let's now bring in tamama
kamut he's a professor of public policy
at the Doha Institute for Graduate
Studies and he joins me again in the
studio T there have been calls for the
ICC to investigate both Hamas and Israel
for violations of international law I'm
curious about what you make of the icc's
response to what's been taking place in
this conflict it it seems remarkably
different to its approach to what
happened in Ukraine uh exactly Nastasia
that's that's their opportunity now to
uh to to really show the entire world
and prove to the entire world that IC is
a is a serious
organization and that it's not
politicizing any crimes I mean we have
seen uh the the how fast it acted to
issue an arrest warrant
against uh uh Putin a president of a
superpower like Russia Russia is not
even a member of the IC but they were
very fast and they were very they did it
because obviously there was uh they had
the support they needed to do it and
politics also play here but when it
comes to Palestine I'm sorry let me get
back a little bit and and the the arrest
warrant was for what for moving
relocating relocating Ukrainian children
from uh a safe orphan in Ukraine to a
safe orphan in Russia orphanage in
Russia correct what's happening in Gaza
is massacring children by thousands
they're being massacred and Mr Khan is
still silent now why did he even wait
for for analy the the Palestinian
foreign minister to go there he should
have acted immediately he does not need
a visit from the Palestinian foreign
minister to to start to open an
immediate investigation and and and and
an issue an arrest warrant for n and all
the Israeli Army generals who are
committing war crimes because Israel is
a state it's a country it's a member of
the UN so it has obligations to respect
international law Hamas is not a state
it's it's a milit party you know but for
sure Israel by international law is
obliged to protect also civilians in
Gaza who are under Israeli occupation so
all these double standards and you know
it might take for years for them to look
into issues also access issues right but
but Thomas forgive me for jumping in I
because I do want to ask you the
question that NE raised do you think
that the threat of legal accountability
will actually change any decision-
making when it comes to this conflict
any decision making uh I mean if is
still treated the way it's treated by
the US and its allies in the west I
don't think anything will happen it's
still it will act as it's it has this
protection it's a country above
International LA because it has its
protection this protection and Status
sadly from its allies
so tamama kamut uh professor of public
policy at the Doha Institute for
graduate studies thank you for joining
me again
Tama